---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: UI Basics Technical Essay
date: 2019-09-30

---

  The WODS that were assigned to us are a very useful tool in aiding the training of webpage building.  From HTML to Cascade Styling sheets, each WOD gives a brief example of the capabilities you have with beginning coding.  The WODS were also created in away thats similar to an athletic apporach: timed tasks.  Trying to get a decent time takes practice and focus, and really test your comprehension and focus on coding material.  In this essay I will briefly discuss my experiences with WODS 1,2, and 3.
  WOD 1 was a brief introduction to creating webpages via VSCode.  To be honest, the first step threw me off completely and made me really nervous which was: 1. Start your timer.  Before even starting the timer I quickly skimmed through the tasks needed to be done in the WOD and for the part I understood what needed to be done though the exact coding I didn't had a clue.  So before I started I did some of the readings and still could not piece together what each instructions were asking.  One thing I realized is that everything all comes down to what type of learner you are.  Whether you are an auditory, visual, or hands on learner, you need to figure out what works best for you.  As for me, I am the type of learner that learns from example, so watching the video tutorials that were recommended to be seen after trying the tasks, I watched immediately.  Another tip I would reccomend would be to work with two computers (being a tech student) because multitasking from monitor to monitor becomes easier.  While watching and listening to the tutorial and doing the WOD hands on, I could easily figure out how to do the task at hand.  The first time I tried this way of learning, it took me 36 minutes to complete which was a DNF grade.  Expecting this type of time because I had no clue of what was being asked, I tried the WOD again this time without the video.  I also had been taking notes throughout the video of coding that I wasn't to familiar with such as (<a>) anchoring and such.  This helped me complete the task faster.  Things that were new to me that I didn't know before were creating (<li>) tags for links.  I also enjoyed learning how to make (<a href="">)  and (<a name="">) tags because I always wondered how some webpages were able to do that and after learning how I was amazed even though how simple it seemed.  In the end I completed the WOD in 16 minutes and 12 seconds perfectly.  Another thing about completeing the WODS is not only trying to finish in time, but completing the task perfectly since coding takes nearly perfection.  I finished with an AV grade and I was satisfied.
  The next WOD was another tutorial I enjoyed.  I like creating and working with CSS and this was exactly what I wanted.  After figuring out my learning style from the first WOD, I continued to do the same which was watching the video of the task and doing it at the same time on two different computers.  I started the timer even though I did not know what to do for the WOD.  This way it gave me a sense of how long it would take me to figure out the WOD from scratch, and then of course trying it again without the video.  All of these lessons were new to me.  I had no idea that you could load a font of your CSS using google!  I've examined page sources in the past but never had a thorough explanation of what was what.  Now I finally understood what (<link rel"stylesheet" href="style.css">) was for: starting your CSS! LOL.  Compared to the last WOD this one was building upon the other WOD1 from before so it wass relatively shorter.  The first attempt I completed it in around 27 minutes.  I tried again and finished in 15 Minutes and 25 seconds without the video.  I got an SD grade and felt somewhat satisfied.
  The last WOD was a mixture of working with the HTML index and the CSS sheet of the two previous WODS.  I again proceeded with my learning technique and found this WOD to be fairly easier then the others.  Basically, this WOD was formatting the last WOD and organizing text in a webpage.  I learned new spacing code such as padding which I never knew before.  It was also fun to use the developers tools on the browsers to check the spacing in the webpages.  Most of the tasks in WOD 3 I had no idea about so everything was a learning process.  Doing this WOD also gave me more familiarity with VScode and it's tools and its user interface such as going back to back between files in a project, and even booting up a live-server for refreshed changes on the browser.  After attempting to complete the WOD the first time, it took me about 25 minutes.  Trying to do The WOD again while referring to my notes every now and then, I came out with a time of 11 minutes and 33 seconds and felt satisfied with a grade of AV.
  In conclusion, I truly feel it all depends on finding the learning style that works best for you.  I am a type of learner that works faster by seeing an example and working hand on at the same time.  If you are the type that knows coding by heart and have a good memory, then watching the videos might just be a refresher.  Me being a noobie to all of this, I feel that this way is the way for me.  I am becoming more and more interested in MIS and can't wait to see whats next! Good luck Peeps!
    
    
  

